# RSKtools

Current stable version: 2.3.1 (2018-06-20)

RSKtools is a Matlab toolbox designed to help RBR users work with the
"RSK" SQLite data files generated by RBR instruments. This repository
is for the development version of the toolbox -- for the current
stable version go to:

[http://www.rbr-global.com/support/matlab-tools](http://www.rbr-global.com/support/matlab-tools)

Please note, RSKtools requires MATLAB R2013b or later, and we
recommend installing the freely
available [TEOS-10 GSW](http://www.teos-10.org/software.htm)
and
[cmocean](https://www.mathworks.com/matlabcentral/fileexchange/57773-cmocean-perceptually-uniform-colormaps) packages.


## What can RSKtools do?

* Open RSK files:
```matlab
rsk = RSKopen('sample.rsk');
```

* Read data from RSK files:
```matlab
rsk = RSKreaddata(rsk);
```

* Plot a time series of the data:
```matlab
RSKplotdata(rsk);
```

* Low-pass filter selected channels:
```matlab
rsk = RSKsmooth(rsk,{'Conductivity','Temperature'},'windowLength',5);
```

* And lots of other stuff like automatic profile detection, sensor time
  alignment, bin averaging, and exporting data to CSV files.

## How do I get set up?

* Unzip the archive (to `~/matlab/RSKtools`, for instance).
* Add the folder to your Matlab path by typing `addpath ~/matlab/RSKtools` or `pathtool` at the command prompt.
* Type `help RSKtools` to get an overview and take a look at the examples.
* Read the [RSKtools User Manual](https://docs.rbr-global.com/rsktools).
* Check out the [Getting started](http://rbr-global.com/wp-content/uploads/2018/01/Standard.pdf)
  and [Post-processing](http://rbr-global.com/wp-content/uploads/2018/01/PostProcessing.pdf) for a quick start.

## A note on calculation of salinity

A typical RBR CTD (e.g., Concerto or Maestro) has sensors to measure
*in situ* pressure, temperature, and electrical conductivity. These
three variables are required to calculate seawater salinity, either
using the Practical Salinity Scale (PSS-78,
see
[Unesco, 1981](http://unesdoc.unesco.org/images/0004/000461/046148eb.pdf)),
or Absolute Salinity based on the Thermodynamic Equation of Seawater
2010 (see [IOC, SCOR and IAPSO, 2010](http://www.teos-10.org)).  If
the [TEOS-10 GSW](http://www.teos-10.org/software.htm) Matlab toolbox
is installed, users can call the `RSKtools` function
`RSKderivesalinity` to calculate Practical Salinity and store it as a 
channel in the RSK structure.


## Contribution guidelines

* Feel free to add improvements at any time:
    * by forking and sending a pull request
    * by emailing patches or changes to `support@rbr-global.com`
* Write to `support@rbr-global.com` if you need help

## Changes

* Version 2.3.1 (2018-06-20)

    - Fixed bug in RSKcorrecthold when one channel contains zero value only
    - Changed input variable name pressure to seapressure in calculatedepth.m
    - Removed thumbnail data from the rsk structure; use downsample for a quick overview of the dataset

* Version 2.3.0 (2018-05-09)

	- New function `RSK2ODV` for outputting RSK structure into Ocean Data View (ODV) files.
	- New function `RSKaddmetadata` for adding station metadata to profiles.
	- `RSKopen` now reads Ruskin annotations including latitude, longitude, comment, and description.
	- `RSKreadprofiles` assigns latitude, longitude, comment and description annotations into data structure.
	- Fixed bug that `RSKplot2D` was not aligning profile with correct time stamp. 
	- Added option that `RSKplot2D` could determine the length of gap shown on the plot.
	- Visualization mode added to `RSKalignchannel`,`RSKbinaverage`,`RSKcorrecthold`,`RSKdespike`,`RSKremoveloops`,`RSKsmooth` and `RSKtrim` to show differences before and after alteration of data.
	- `RSKtrim` input `appliedchannel` changed to `channel`.
	- Option to choose cast direction to write with `RSK2CSV`.
	- `RSK2CSV` will write station metadata to the file CSV file header.
	- `showcast` option added in `RSKplotdata` to show cast detection events overlaid on pressure.
	- Added profile number and cast direction as legend in the last subplot in `RSKplotdata`.

* Version 2.2.0 (2018-01-25)
	- New function `RSKcorrecthold` for correcting A2D zero-order hold points.
	- New function `RSKaddchannel` for adding new variable into existing rsk structure.
	- New function `RSKderiveC25` for deriving specific conductivity at 25 degree Celsius.
	- New function `RSKderiveBPR` for deriving pressure and temperature from period data with bottom pressure recorder (BPR) channels.
	- New function `RSK2CSV` for writing logger data to CSV files.
	- New functions `RSKreaddownsample` and `RSKplotdownsample` for reading and plotting downsample data.
	- mksqlite upgraded to Version 2.5
	- Fixed bug that `RSKopen` imports wrong data table when multiple files are opened.
	- Fixed bug that `RSKfindprofile` does not always detect upcast correctly.
	- Added option to specify lag in units of time in `RSKalignchannel`.
	- Option added in `RSKopen` to read hidden channels 
	- `RSKopen` now reads power table for certain logger firmware versions.
	- Added interpolation option in `RSKtrim`.
	- Added `Optode Temperature` channel long name.
	- Improved algorithm for `RSKbinaverage`.
	- Improved algorithm for finding pressure reversals in `RSKremoveloops`.
	- Added `direction` and `profilenumber` fields to `rsk.data` with profiles.
	- `RSKplotprofiles` uses different line styles for upcast and downcast.
	- Added option in `RSKplotprofiles` to plot against total pressure.

* Version 2.1.0 (2017-08-31)
	- New function `RSKtrim` for pruning data
	- Improved vignettes
	- Option to plot against depth in `RSKplotprofiles`
	- Fixed `RSKplotprofiles` for compatibility with pre-R2014b
	- Fixed `RSKcalculateCTlag` and `RSKdespike` for compatibility with pre-R2015a
	- pressureRange option in `RSKcalculateCTlag` now seapressureRange
	- Removed dependence on Financial Toolbox in `RSKbinaverage`
	- Fixed bug occurring when RSK file has multiple dissolved oxygen channels
	- Enumerate channels with duplicate longName

* Version 2.0.0 (2017-07-07)
	- All optional input arguments are name-value pair
	- Rename burstdata field to burstData
	- Add post-processing functions for smoothing, channel alignment, etc.
	- RSKtools data processing log recorded in RSK structure 
	- Add 2D plotting function, `RSKplot2D`
	- RSKplotprofiles contains a subplot for each channel
	- Add option to plot selected channels to plotting functions
	- Plotting functions output handles to line objects for customization
	- Relocate profiling data from the profiles field to the data field
	- Added function to calculate Practical Salinity, `RSKderivesalinity`
	- Added function to calculate sea pressure from total pressure, `RSKderiveseapressure`
	- Added function to calculate depth, `RSKderivedepth`
	- Added function to calculate profiling speed, `RSKderivevelocity`
	- Cast detection function added, `RSKfindprofiles`

* Version 1.5.3 (2017-06-07)
	- Use atmospheric pressure in database if available
	- Improve channel table reading by using instrumentChannels
	- Change geodata warning to a display message
	- Only read current parameter values in parameter table

* Version 1.5.2 (2017-05-23)
	- Update RSKconstants.m
	- Fix bug with opening files that are not in current directory

* Version 1.5.1 (2017-05-18)
    - Add RSKderivedepth function
    - Add RSKderiveseapressure function
    - Add channel longName change for doxy09
    - Add filename check to RSKopen
    - Fix bug with dbInfo 1.13.0
    - Add channel argument to RSKplotdata
    - Fix bug introduced in 1.5.0 in RSKreaddata from dbInfo.version < 1.8.9.

* Version 1.5.0 (2017-03-30)
    - Move salinity derivation from RSKreaddata to RSKderivesalinity
    - Move calibrations table reading from RSKopen to RSKreadcalibrations
    - Add RSKfirmwarever function
    - Add RSKsamplingperiod function
    - Add channel longName change for temp04, temp05, temp10 and temp13
    - Remove dataset and datasetDeployments fields
    - Fix bug with loading geodata
    - Support for RSK v1.13.8


* Version 1.4.6 (2017-01-18)
    - Remove non-marine channels from data table
    - Fix bugs that occured if RSKreaddata.m is run twice
    - Seperate profile metadata reading into a different fuction in RSKopen.m
    - Add option to enter UTCdelta for geodata
    - Remove channels units and longName from data table
    - Fix bug in data when reading in profile data


* Version 1.4.5 (2016-12-22)
    - Add more support for geodata
    - Add helper files to open different file types
    - Add function to read version of file


* Version 1.4.4 (2016-12-15)
    - Add support for geodata
    - Assure that non-marine channel stay hidden
    - Add RSK2MAT.m for legacy mat file users
    - Update support for coefficients and parameter tables


* Version 1.4.3 (2016-11-03)
    - Events structure does not read in notes
    - Fix dbInfo bug to read last entry
    - Support for RSK v1.13.4


* Version 1.4.2 (2016-10-20)
    - Changed removal of 'datasetID' to be case insensitive
    - Fix upcast/downcast type in RSKplotprofiles
    - Fix RSKreadprofile typo
    - Fix bug opening |rt instruments data


* Version 1.4.1 (2016-05-20)
    - Add RSKreadwavetxt to handle import wave text exports	
    - properly read "realtime" RSK files
    - don't plot hidden channels in profiles
    - Fix bug reading data table for RSK version >= 1.12.2
    - add info from `ranging` table to structure
    - mfile vignette using Matlab markup
  

* Version 1.4 (2015-11-30)
    - add support for profile events and profile plotting
    - supports TEOS-10 for calculation of salinity
    - improved documentation
  

* Version 1.3
    - compatible with RSK generated from an EasyParse (iOs format) logger


* Version 1.2

    - added linux 64 bit mksqlite library


* Version 1.1

    - added burst and event readers

